- ### Goals
- [x] Hyperledger solang
- [x] workout
- [] Drone project
- ###  Solang
	- [[Solang tutorials]]
	- [[2023-05-21#^d22092]]
	- #### Expressions[](https://solang.readthedocs.io/en/latest/language/expressions.html#expressions "Permalink to this heading")

		Solidity resembles the C family of languages. Expressions can use the following operators.
		
		## Arithmetic operators[](https://solang.readthedocs.io/en/latest/language/expressions.html#arithmetic-operators "Permalink to this heading")
		
		The binary operators `-`, `+`, `*`, `/`, `%`, and `**` are supported, and also in the assignment form `-=`, `+=`, `*=`, `/=`, and `%=`. There is a unary operator `-`.
		
		uint32 fahrenheit = celsius * 9 / 5 + 32;
		
		Parentheses can be used too, of course:
		
		uint32 celsius = (fahrenheit - 32) * 5 / 9;
		
		Operators can also come in the assignment form.
		
		balance += 10;
		
		The exponation (or power) can be used to multiply a number N times by itself, i.e. x y. This can only be done for unsigned types.
		
		uint64 thousand = 1000;
		uint64 billion = thousand ** 3;
		
		No overflow checking is generated in unchecked blocks, like so:
		
		contract foo {
		    function f(int64 n) public {
		        unchecked {
		            int64 j = n - 1;
		        }
		    }
		}
		
		## Bitwise operators[](https://solang.readthedocs.io/en/latest/language/expressions.html#bitwise-operators "Permalink to this heading")
		
		The `|`, `&`, `^` are supported, as are the shift operators `<<` and `>>`. These are also available in the assignment form `|=`, `&=`, `^=`, `<<=`, and `>>=`. Lastly there is a unary operator `~` to invert all the bits in a value.
		
		## Logical operators[](https://solang.readthedocs.io/en/latest/language/expressions.html#logical-operators "Permalink to this heading")
		
		The logical operators `||`, `&&`, and `!` are supported. The `||` and `&&` short-circuit. For example:
		
		bool foo = x > 0 || bar();
		
		bar() will not be called if the left hand expression evaluates to true, i.e. x is greater than 0. If x is 0, then bar() will be called and the result of the `||` will be the return value of bar(). Similarly, the right hand expressions of `&&` will not be evaluated if the left hand expression evaluates to `false`; in this case, whatever ever the outcome of the right hand expression, the `&&` will result in `false`.
		
		bool foo = x > 0 && bar();
		
		Now `bar()` will only be called if x _is_ greater than 0. If x is 0 then the `&&` will result in false, irrespective of what bar() would return, so bar() is not called at all. The expression elides execution of the right hand side, which is also called _short-circuit_.
		
		## Conditional operator[](https://solang.readthedocs.io/en/latest/language/expressions.html#conditional-operator "Permalink to this heading")
		
		The ternary conditional operator `? :` is supported:
		
		uint64 abs = foo > 0 ? foo : -foo;
		
		## Comparison operators[](https://solang.readthedocs.io/en/latest/language/expressions.html#comparison-operators "Permalink to this heading")
		
		It is also possible to compare values. For, this the `>=`, `>`, `==`, `!=`, `<`, and `<=` is supported. This is useful for conditionals.
		
		The result of a comparison operator can be assigned to a bool. For example:
		
		bool even = (value % 2) == 0;
		
		It is not allowed to assign an integer to a bool; an explicit comparision is needed to turn it into a bool.
		
		## Increment and Decrement operators[](https://solang.readthedocs.io/en/latest/language/expressions.html#increment-and-decrement-operators "Permalink to this heading")
		
		The post-increment and pre-increment operators are implemented by reading the variable’s value before or after modifying it. `i++``returns the value of ``i` before incrementing, and `++i` returns the value of `i` after incrementing.
		
		## this[](https://solang.readthedocs.io/en/latest/language/expressions.html#this "Permalink to this heading")
		
		The keyword `this` evaluates to the current contract. The type of this is the type of the current contract. It can be cast to `address` or `address payable` using a cast.
		
		contract kadowari {
		    function nomi() public {
		        kadowari c = this;
		        address a = address(this);
		    }
		}
		
		Function calls made via this are function calls through the external call mechanism; i.e. they have to serialize and deserialise the arguments and have the external call overhead. In addition, this only works with public functions.
		
		contract kadowari {
		    function nomi() public {
		        this.nokogiri(102);
		    }
		
		    function nokogiri(int256 a) public {
		        // ...
		    }
		}
		
		Note
		
		On Solana, this gives the account of contract data. If you want the account with the program code, use `tx.program_id`.
		
		## type(..) operators[](https://solang.readthedocs.io/en/latest/language/expressions.html#type-operators "Permalink to this heading")
		
		For integer values, the minimum and maximum values the types can hold are available using the `type(...).min` and `type(...).max` operators. For unsigned integers, `type(..).min` will always be 0.
		
		contract example {
		    int16 stored;
		
		    function func(int256 x) public {
		        if (x < type(int16).min || x > type(int16).max) {
		            revert("value will not fit");
		        }
		
		        stored = int16(x);
		    }
		}
		
		The [EIP-165](https://eips.ethereum.org/EIPS/eip-165) interface value can be retrieved using the syntax `type(...).interfaceId`. This is only permitted on interfaces. The interfaceId is simply an bitwise XOR of all function selectors in the interface. This makes it possible to uniquely identify an interface at runtime, which can be used to write a supportsInterface() function as described in the EIP.
		
		The contract code for a contract, i.e. the binary WebAssembly or Solana SBF, can be retrieved using the `type(c).creationCode` and `type(c).runtimeCode` fields, as `bytes`. On EVM, the constructor code is in the `creationCode` and all the functions are in the `runtimeCode`. Parity Substrate and Solana use the same code for both, so those fields will evaluate to the same value.
		
		contract example {
		    function test() public {
		        bytes runtime = type(other).runtimeCode;
		    }
		}
		
		contract other {
		    function foo() public returns (bool) {
		        return true;
		    }
		}
		
		Note
		
		`type().creationCode` and `type().runtimeCode` are compile time constants.
		
		It is not possible to access the code for the current contract. If this were possible, then the contract code would need to contain itself as a constant array, which would result in an contract of infinite size.
		
		## Ether, Sol, and time units[](https://solang.readthedocs.io/en/latest/language/expressions.html#ether-sol-and-time-units "Permalink to this heading")
		
		Any decimal numeric literal constant can have a unit denomination. For example `10 minutes` will evaluate to 600, i.e. the constant will be multiplied by the multiplier listed below. The following units are available:
		
		Unit
		
		Multiplier
		
		`seconds`
		
		1
		
		`minutes`
		
		60
		
		`hours`
		
		3600
		
		`days`
		
		86400
		
		`weeks`
		
		604800
		
		`lamports`
		
		1
		
		`sol`
		
		1_000_000_000
		
		`wei`
		
		1
		
		`gwei`
		
		1_000_000_000
		
		`ether`
		
		1_000_000_000_000_000_000
		
		Note that the Ethereum currency denominations `ether`, `gwei`, and `wei` are available when not compiling for Ethereum, but they will produce warnings.
		
		## Casting[](https://solang.readthedocs.io/en/latest/language/expressions.html#casting "Permalink to this heading")
		
		Solidity is very strict about the sign of operations, and whether an assignment can truncate a value. You can force the compiler to accept truncations or sign changes by adding an explicit cast.
		
		Some examples:
		
		function abs(int bar) public returns (int64) {
		    if (bar > 0) {
		        return bar;
		    } else {
		        return -bar;
		    }
		}
		
		The compiler will say:
		
		implicit conversion would truncate from int256 to int64
		
		Now you can work around this by adding a cast to the argument to return `return int64(bar);`, however it is idiomatic to match the return value type with the argument type. Instead, implement multiple overloaded abs() functions, so that there is an `abs()` for each type.
		
		It is allowed to cast from a `bytes` type to `int` or `uint` (or vice versa), only if the length of the type is the same. This requires an explicit cast.
		
		bytes4 selector = "ABCD";
		uint32 selector_as_uint = uint32(selector);
		
		If the length also needs to change, then another cast is needed to adjust the length. Truncation and extension is different for integers and bytes types. Integers pad zeros on the left when extending, and truncate on the right. bytes pad on right when extending, and truncate on the left. For example:
		
		bytes4 start = "ABCD";
		uint64 start1 = uint64(uint4(start));
		// first cast to int, then extend as int: start1 = 0x41424344
		uint64 start2 = uint64(bytes8(start));
		// first extend as bytes, then cast to int: start2 = 0x4142434400000000
		
		A similar example for truncation:
		
		uint64 start = 0xdead_cafe;
		bytes4 start1 = bytes4(uint32(start));
		// first truncate as int, then cast: start1 = hex"cafe"
		bytes4 start2 = bytes4(bytes8(start));
		// first cast, then truncate as bytes: start2 = hex"dead"
		
		Since `byte` is an array of one byte, a conversion from `byte` to `uint8` requires a cast. This is because `byte` is an alias for `bytes1`.
	- [[Hyperledger solang.canvas]]
	- ### Certainly! Here's an overview of Hyperledger Solang in bullet points:
		-   Solang is a Solidity compiler developed by Hyperledger.
		-   It is written in Rust programming language.
		-   Solang supports compiling Solidity contracts for Substrate contracts pallet (Polkadot) and Solana smart contract runtimes.
		-   The compiler generates contract artifacts that can be deployed and interacted with on the blockchain.
		-   Solang aims to provide a seamless and efficient experience for contract development and deployment.
		-   It offers advanced features and optimizations for Solidity contracts.
		-   Solang can be used as a command-line tool or as a library in other projects.
		-   It supports various functionalities such as contract compilation, deployment, transaction submission, and event listening.
		-   Solang focuses on delivering high-quality, maintainable, and well-documented code.
		-   The project is open source, encouraging community contributions and collaboration.
		-   Solang is part of the Hyperledger community and aligns with the goals and principles of Hyperledger projects.
	- ### The Solang compilation process, as described in the Solang documentation and the GitHub repository, involves the following steps:

		1.  Parsing: Solang parses the Solidity source code, which involves analyzing the code's syntax and structure.
		    
		2.  Type Checking: Solang performs type checking on the parsed code to ensure the correctness of data types and expressions.
		    
		3.  Semantic Analysis: Solang conducts semantic analysis to enforce additional rules and constraints specific to Solidity contracts.
		    
		4.  Intermediate Representation (IR) Generation: Solang generates an intermediate representation (IR) of the Solidity code.
		    
		5.  Optimization: Solang applies various optimizations to the IR to improve the efficiency and performance of the compiled bytecode.
		    
		6.  Target-specific Code Generation: Based on the target blockchain (Substrate or Solana), Solang generates target-specific bytecode or executable code.
		    
		7.  Artifact Generation: Solang creates contract artifacts that include the compiled bytecode, contract metadata, and other necessary information for deployment and interaction with the contract.
		    
		8.  Output: Solang provides the compiled contract artifacts as the output of the compilation process, which can be deployed to the target blockchain.
	
	- To implement a Command Line Interface (CLI) for Solang that facilitates node interactions, including contract deployment and transaction submission, you can follow an architecture based on the Hyperledger Solang documentation. Here's a high-level overview of the architecture:
		
		1.  User Interface:
		    
		    -   The CLI serves as the user interface for interacting with Solang and performing various actions.
		    -   It provides command-line commands and options for different operations related to node interactions.
		2.  CLI Core:
		    
		    -   The CLI Core is responsible for handling user commands and coordinating the different components of the CLI.
		    -   It parses user inputs, executes the requested commands, and interacts with other modules accordingly.
		3.  Contract Compilation:
		    
		    -   The CLI interacts with the Solang Compiler to compile Solidity contracts into executable artifacts.
		    -   It takes the Solidity source code files as input and invokes the Solang Compiler to generate the contract bytecode and ABI (Application Binary Interface).
		4.  Contract Deployment:
		    
		    -   The CLI facilitates the deployment of compiled contracts onto the blockchain.
		    -   It communicates with the blockchain network or node to deploy the contract bytecode and initialize the contract's state.
		5.  Transaction Submission:
		    
		    -   The CLI enables users to submit transactions to interact with deployed contracts.
		    -   It interacts with the blockchain network or node to construct and submit transactions, including method invocations and parameter data.
		6.  Node Interaction:
		    
		    -   The CLI communicates with the blockchain network or node to perform various interactions.
		    -   It utilizes appropriate APIs or libraries specific to the targeted blockchain platform (e.g., Substrate or Solana) to connect to the network, send transactions, and retrieve contract state.
		7.  User Configuration:
		    
		    -   The CLI allows users to configure various settings, such as the RPC endpoint, account information, gas limits, and other specific options.
		    -   Users can provide these configurations through CLI command-line options or configuration files.
		8.  Documentation:
		    
		    -   The CLI architecture should include documentation describing its usage, available commands, and configurations.
		    -   The documentation helps users understand how to interact with the CLI and perform different node interactions.
	
	It's important to note that the specific implementation details may vary based on the Solang documentation and the requirements of the mentorship project. The outlined architecture provides a general structure for developing a CLI for Solang, but additional research and reference to the Solang documentation will be necessary for a more detailed and accurate implementation.
	- <br><br>
	- To implement a **Command Line Interface (CLI)** for Solang, the following tools and technologies may be required:

		1.  Programming Language: Rust
		    
		    -   Hyperledger Solang is written in Rust, so a good understanding of Rust programming language is necessary to work with the Solang codebase.
		2.  CLI Framework: Rust CLI Libraries
		    
		    -   You may need to utilize Rust CLI libraries or frameworks to build the command-line interface for the Solang CLI.
		    -   Examples of popular Rust CLI libraries include Clap, StructOpt, and Docopt.
		3.  Solang Compiler
		    
		    -   You will need to use the Solang Compiler, which is part of the Hyperledger Solang project, to compile Solidity contracts into executable artifacts.
		    -   The Solang Compiler translates Solidity source code into bytecode and generates the contract's Application Binary Interface (ABI).
		4.  Blockchain Platforms and Nodes
		    
		    -   Depending on the targeted blockchain platforms (e.g., Substrate, Solana), you may need to work with specific blockchain nodes or clients.
		    -   For example, if you're targeting Substrate, you may need to interact with Substrate nodes using the Substrate API or libraries.
		    -   Similarly, for Solana, you may need to utilize Solana-specific libraries or APIs for node interactions.
		5.  RPC Libraries or APIs
		    
		    -   To communicate with blockchain nodes and perform node interactions, you may need to use RPC libraries or APIs.
		    -   Depending on the blockchain platform, there may be specific RPC libraries or APIs available to facilitate communication with the blockchain network.
		6.  Documentation and Markdown Tools
		    
		    -   To create comprehensive documentation for the CLI, you may need tools or libraries to generate documentation in markdown format.
		    -   Markdown editors or generators can help you create well-formatted and readable documentation for users.
		7.  Version Control System: Git
		    
		    -   It's recommended to use Git as the version control system to manage the source code and collaborate with other contributors.
		    -   You can utilize Git features for branching, merging, and tracking changes throughout the development process.
		8.  Testing Frameworks: Rust Testing Frameworks
		    
		    -   It's essential to ensure the quality and reliability of the CLI by writing tests.
		    -   Rust provides various testing frameworks like Rust's built-in `test` framework, `assert` macros, and additional testing libraries like `rusty-cheddar`.

These are some of the tools and technologies that might be relevant for implementing the Solang CLI. The specific requirements may vary based on the mentorship project and the needs outlined in the Solang documentation.

- According to the GitHub repository for Hyperledger Solang ([https://github.com/hyperledger/solang](https://github.com/hyperledger/solang)), the following tools and technologies are needed for working with Solang:

	1.  Rust Programming Language:
	    
	    -   Solang is written in Rust, so a good understanding of Rust programming language is necessary to contribute to the project.
	2.  Cargo Build System:
	    
	    -   Cargo is the build system and package manager for Rust. It is used to build, test, and manage dependencies for the Solang project.
	3.  LLVM:
	    
	    -   Solang utilizes LLVM (Low-Level Virtual Machine) as its backend for code generation and optimization.
	4.  Solidity Compiler:
	    
	    -   Solang includes a Solidity compiler, which is used to compile Solidity smart contracts into executable artifacts.
	5.  YAML Configuration:
	    
	    -   The Solang project uses YAML configuration files to define and configure various aspects of the compiler and its behavior.
	6.  Git and GitHub:
	    
	    -   Git is used as the version control system for the Solang project, and GitHub is the hosting platform for the repository.
	7.  Markdown:
	    
	    -   Markdown is used for documentation in the Solang project. Markdown files are commonly used to provide explanations, tutorials, and guidelines.
	8.  Testing Frameworks:
	    
	    -   The Solang project likely utilizes testing frameworks specific to Rust, such as the built-in Rust `test` framework or additional testing libraries like `rusty-cheddar`.
	9.  Continuous Integration (CI) Tools: ^6e85bb
	    
	    -   The project may use CI tools like Travis CI or GitHub Actions to automate the build, test, and integration processes.
	10.  Editor and IDE:
		-   A code editor or integrated development environment (IDE) that supports Rust development is required to work with the Solang codebase effectively.
<br><br>
- #### To implement a Command Line Interface (CLI) for Solang that facilitates node interactions, including contract uploading, deployment, and transaction submission, you can follow an architecture based on the Hyperledger Solang documentation. Here is a high-level overview of the architecture:

	1.  User Interaction:
	    - Users interact with the CLI through the command line interface, providing inputs and executing commands for various operations.
	2.  CLI Parser:
	    - The CLI Parser component receives and processes user commands and arguments, extracting relevant information for further processing.
	3.  Solidity Compiler:
	    - The Solang Solidity compiler component is responsible for compiling Solidity smart contracts into executable artifacts. It takes the Solidity source code as input and generates the compiled contracts.
	4.  Contract Uploader:
	    - The Contract Uploader module is responsible for uploading the compiled contract artifacts to the blockchain node. It interacts with the blockchain network using the appropriate protocols and APIs.
	5.  Contract Deployment:
	    - The Contract Deployment component handles the deployment of smart contracts onto the blockchain. It communicates with the blockchain node and sends the necessary transaction data to deploy the contracts.
	6.  Transaction Submitter:
	    - The Transaction Submitter module is responsible for submitting transactions to the deployed contracts. It enables users to interact with the contracts by sending transactions with the desired parameters and data.
	7.  Blockchain Node:
	    - The CLI interacts with the blockchain node, which can be either a Substrate or Solana node, depending on the target blockchain. The node provides the necessary APIs and interfaces for contract deployment, transaction submission, and other interactions.
	8.  Configuration and Settings:
	    - The architecture should include a configuration component where users can specify settings such as the RPC endpoint of the blockchain node, account credentials, gas limits, verbosity levels, and other specific options relevant to node interactions. ^42c740

Overall, this architecture allows users to interact with Solang through a command line interface, leveraging the Solidity compiler and interacting with the blockchain node for contract uploading, deployment, and transaction submission.

Certainly! Here's a breakdown of how the components work together in implementing a Command Line Interface (CLI) for Solang:

1.  User interacts with the CLI by providing commands and arguments through the command line interface.
    
2.  CLI Parser receives and processes the user commands and arguments, extracting relevant information for further processing.
    
3.  Solidity Compiler takes the Solidity source code as input and compiles it into executable artifacts, generating the compiled contracts.
    
4.  Contract Uploader module interacts with the blockchain node using appropriate protocols and APIs, uploading the compiled contract artifacts to the blockchain.
    
5.  Contract Deployment component communicates with the blockchain node to deploy the smart contracts onto the blockchain, sending the necessary transaction data.
    
6.  Transaction Submitter module enables users to submit transactions to the deployed contracts, facilitating interaction by sending transactions with desired parameters and data.
    
7.  Blockchain Node serves as the interface to the underlying blockchain network, providing APIs and protocols for contract deployment, transaction submission, and other interactions.
    
8.  Configuration and Settings component allows users to specify settings such as the RPC endpoint of the blockchain node, account credentials, gas limits, verbosity levels, and other specific options relevant to node interactions.
    

Overall, the user interacts with the CLI, which utilizes the Solidity Compiler to compile contracts, the Contract Uploader to upload artifacts to the blockchain node, the Contract Deployment module to deploy contracts, and the Transaction Submitter to submit transactions. All these components collaborate with the underlying blockchain node to facilitate interactions with the blockchain network.

#### working with example
Sure! Let's walk through an example to understand how the components work together in implementing a CLI for Hyperledger Solang. Here are the steps:

1. User Interaction:
    
    - The user opens the command line interface and enters a command, such as `solang deploy MyContract.sol`.
2. CLI Parser:
    
    - The CLI parser receives the user command and arguments (`deploy` and `MyContract.sol`) and parses them to extract relevant information.
3. Solidity Compiler:
    
    - The Solidity compiler component takes the Solidity source code file (`MyContract.sol`) as input.
    - It compiles the Solidity code, resolving dependencies and generating compiled contract artifacts.
4. Contract Uploader:
    
    - The contract uploader module receives the compiled contract artifacts from the Solidity compiler.
    - It interacts with the blockchain node by using the appropriate protocols and APIs, such as JSON-RPC or Web3 APIs.
    - The contract uploader uploads the compiled contract artifacts to the blockchain node, making them available for deployment.
5. Contract Deployment:
    
    - The contract deployment component communicates with the blockchain node.
    - It sends a deployment transaction, including the necessary data and parameters from the compiled contract artifacts, to the blockchain.
    - The blockchain node verifies the transaction, deploys the contract, and returns a transaction receipt.
6. Transaction Submitter:
    
    - The transaction submitter module enables users to interact with the deployed contracts.
    - For example, the user can submit a transaction to call a function in the deployed contract, providing the required input parameters.
    - The transaction submitter sends the transaction to the blockchain node, which processes it and updates the contract state.
7. Blockchain Node:
    
    - The CLI interacts with the blockchain node, which can be a Hyperledger Substrate or Solana node.
    - The node provides the necessary APIs and interfaces for contract deployment, transaction submission, and other interactions.
    - It receives the transactions, executes them, updates the contract state, and returns the transaction results.
8. Configuration and Settings:
    
    - The architecture includes a configuration component where users can specify settings such as the RPC endpoint of the blockchain node, account credentials, gas limits, and other options relevant to node interactions.
    - These settings are used by the CLI and other components to connect to the correct blockchain network and perform the desired operations.

By following this step-by-step process, users can interact with Solang through the CLI, compile Solidity contracts, upload them to the blockchain node, deploy contracts, and submit transactions for contract interactions. The architecture ensures seamless communication between the CLI, Solidity compiler, contract uploader, contract deployment, transaction submitter, blockchain node, and user configuration, enabling effective node interactions in Hyperledger Solang.

#### BRAD Google
Sure, here is an architecture for implementing a Command Line Interface (CLI) for Solang that can be used for node interactions instead. This includes uploading and deploying contracts on-chain as well as submitting transactions to contracts.

The architecture is based on the Hyperledger Solang documentation, which can be found here: https://github.com/hyperledger/solang

The CLI will be implemented as a Rust library. The library will provide a generic interface for interacting with Solang-compiled contracts. The interface will be designed to be usable for both Substrate and Solana.

The CLI will be implemented as a set of sub-commands. Each sub-command will perform a specific task, such as uploading a contract, deploying a contract, or submitting a transaction to a contract.

The CLI will be configured using a command-line options file. The options file will allow users to specify the RPC endpoint, the account to use, and other parameters.

The CLI will be tested using a variety of unit tests and integration tests. The tests will ensure that the CLI is working correctly and that it is compatible with Substrate and Solana.

The CLI will be documented using Rustdoc. The documentation will explain how to use the CLI and provide examples of how to use it.

The CLI will be released to the public through the Hyperledger Solang project. The CLI will be available for download and use by anyone.

Here is a more detailed overview of the architecture:

-   The CLI will be implemented as a Rust library.
-   The library will provide a generic interface for interacting with Solang-compiled contracts.
-   The interface will be designed to be usable for both Substrate and Solana.
-   The CLI will be implemented as a set of sub-commands.
-   Each sub-command will perform a specific task, such as uploading a contract, deploying a contract, or submitting a transaction to a contract.
-   The CLI will be configured using a command-line options file.
-   The CLI will be tested using a variety of unit tests and integration tests.
-   The CLI will be documented using Rustdoc.
-   The CLI will be released to the public through the Hyperledger Solang project.

Here are some of the benefits of this architecture:

-   The CLI will be implemented in Rust, which is a high-performance language.
-   The CLI will be generic, which means that it will be usable for both Substrate and Solana.
-   The CLI will be well-tested, which will ensure that it is working correctly.
-   The CLI will be documented, which will make it easy for users to understand how to use it.
-   The CLI will be released to the public, which will make it available for anyone to use.

Here is an example of how to use the CLI to upload a contract:

Code snippet

```
solang upload my_contract.sol
```

Use code with caution. [Learn more](https://bard.google.com/faq#coding)

This will upload the contract to the local file system. The contract can then be deployed to the blockchain using the following command:

Code snippet

```
solang deploy my_contract
```

Use code with caution. [Learn more](https://bard.google.com/faq#coding)

This will deploy the contract to the blockchain and return the contract address. The contract address can then be used to submit transactions to the contract using the following command:

Code snippet

```
solang send my_contract 1000
```

Use code with caution. [Learn more](https://bard.google.com/faq#coding)

This will send 1000 units of currency to the contract.

The CLI can also be used to interact with contracts in a more complex way. For example, the following command will get the balance of the contract:

Code snippet

```
solang balance my_contract
```

Use code with caution. [Learn more](https://bard.google.com/faq#coding)

The following command will get the contract's code:

Code snippet

```
solang code my_contract
```

Use code with caution. [Learn more](https://bard.google.com/faq#coding)

The following command will get the contract's events:

Code snippet

```
solang events my_contract
```

Use code with caution. [Learn more](https://bard.google.com/faq#coding)

The CLI can be used to interact with any Solang-compiled contract. The CLI is a powerful tool that can be used to develop and manage smart contracts.

Here is an example of how to implement the CLI in Rust:

Rust

```
use solang_sdk::{
    Compiler,
    Contract,
    Event,
    Function,
    Runtime,
    Transaction,
};

fn main() {
    // Create a compiler.
    let compiler = Compiler::new();

    // Create a contract.
    let contract = Contract::new("my_contract.sol");

    // Compile the contract.
    let compiled_contract = compiler.compile(&contract).unwrap();

    // Create a runtime.
    let runtime = Runtime::new();

    // Deploy the contract to the runtime.
    let contract_address = runtime.deploy(&compiled_contract).unwrap();

    // Create a
```

Use code with caution. [Learn more](https://bard.google.com/faq#coding)

- ### Sure, here are the steps on how the CLI works in points:

1.  The CLI reads the command from the user.
2.  The CLI parses the command and determines the sub-command to execute.
3.  The CLI loads the appropriate library for the sub-command.
4.  The CLI calls the appropriate function in the library to execute the sub-command.
5.  The CLI prints the output of the sub-command to the user.

Here are some additional details about each step:

1.  The CLI reads the command from the user using the `std::env::args()` function.
2.  The CLI parses the command using the `clap` library. The `clap` library is a command-line argument parser that allows you to define the syntax of your commands.
3.  The CLI determines the sub-command to execute by looking at the first argument to the command. For example, if the user runs the command `solang upload my_contract.sol`, the CLI will determine that the sub-command to execute is `upload`.
4.  The CLI loads the appropriate library for the sub-command. The CLI uses the `std::fs::read_to_string()` function to read the library file from the filesystem.
5.  The CLI calls the appropriate function in the library to execute the sub-command. The CLI uses the `std::function::Function::new()` function to create a function object for the function in the library. The CLI then calls the function object with the arguments from the command.
6.  The CLI prints the output of the sub-command to the user. The CLI uses the `std::io::stdout::write()` function to write the output to the standard output stream.

- # Step By Step Guide on how get a high paying Tech Job in Recession 2023
	- Data structure and algorithm
		- Start with basic course of data structure and algo
		- Practice
		- Dont spend more than 30 min on each problem
	- Projects
	- Open source contributions

### Drone Project
- Making changes like adding lfwwww data
- 