- ## Goals
- [x] rust
- [x] workout
- [x] web dev / blockchain
- #### [[Overview of JunoDB - an open source KV store by PayPal]]
	- [[Overview of JunoDB - an open source KV store by PayPal#^8da2bd]]
	- Highlevel overview of JUNODB
- ### [[High level architecture and System Design of JunoDB]]
	- Storage Servers
	- JunoDB stores the data on Storage server <-- where data resides
	- These servers accept the operation and make changes to data
		- They can store the data in-memory or disk
	- JunoDB is not a pure in-mem store
	- Data is split inot partitions (aslo called shards) and each storage server is responsible for a bunch of them
	- [[JunoDB.excalidraw#^uSn7OcjU]]
	- RockerDB Instance
		- Request comes to storage
		- if figures out which shard owns it
		- it writes/reads data from shard
		- [[JunoDB.excalidraw#^f6QO1ndv]]
	- Data ownership
		- we now need to answer which storage server owns which shard?
		- JunoDB uses consistent haashing to ans this
			- minimal data movement
			- truly elastic
			- [[JunoDB.excalidraw#^0309kaXX]]
			- 
- ### Rust #rust 
	- [[2023-06-03#^b20328]]
	- #### Ownership 
		- Ownership is primarily a discipline of heap management:[2](https://rust-book.cs.brown.edu/ch04-01-what-is-ownership.html#pointer-management)
		- All heap data must be owned by exactly one variable.
		- Rust deallocates heap data once its owner goes out of scope.
		- Ownership can be transferred by moves, which happen on assignments and function calls.
		- Heap data can only be accessed through its current owner, not a previous owner.
		- #### [References Change Permissions on Paths](https://rust-book.cs.brown.edu/ch04-02-references-and-borrowing.html#references-change-permissions-on-paths)
			- The core idea behind the borrow checker is that variables have three kinds of **permissions** on their data:
				- **Read** (R): data can be copied to another location.
				- **Write** (W): data can be mutated in-place.
				- **Own** (O): data can be moved or dropped.
				
				These permissions don't exist at runtime, only within the compiler. They describe how the compiler "thinks" about your program before the program is executed.
				
				By default, a variable has read/own permissions (RO) on its data. If a variable is annotated with `let mut`, then it also has the write permission (W). The key idea is that **references can temporarily remove these permissions.**
			- 
```
fn main() {
let mut vec: Vec<i32> = vec![1, 2, 3];
let num: &i32 = &vec[2];
println!("Third element is {}", *num);
vec.push(4);
}
```
- <br>
				- Let's walk through each line:
					1. After `let mut vec = (...)`, the variable `vec` has been initialized (indicated by ). It gains +R+W+O permissions (the plus sign indicates gain).
					2. After `let num = &vec[2]`, the data in `vec` has been **borrowed** by `num` (indicated by ). Three things happen:
					    - The borrow removes WO permissions from `vec` (the slash indicates loss). `vec` cannot be written or owned, but it can still be read.
					    - The variable `num` has gained RO permissions. `num` is not writable (the missing W permission is shown as a dash ‒) because it was not marked `let mut`.
					    - The **path** `*num` has gained the R permission.
					3. After `println!(...)`, then `num` is no longer in use, so `vec` is no longer borrowed. Therefore:
					    - `vec` regains its WO permissions (indicated by ).
					    - `num` and `*num` have lost all of their permissions (indicated by ).
					4. After `vec.push(4)`, then `vec` is no longer in use, and it loses all of its permissions.
					 
	- References provide the ability to read and write data without consuming ownership of it. References are created with borrows (`&` and `&mut`) and used with dereferences (`*`), often implicitly.

		However, references can be easily misused. Rust's borrow checker enforces a system of permissions that ensures references are used safely:
		
		- All variables can read, own, and (optionally) write their data.
		- Creating a reference will transfer permissions from the borrowed path to the reference.
		- Permissions are returned once the reference's lifetime has ended.
		- Data must outlive all references that point to it. ^1b7c81
- ### Web3 voting app
	- created the hardhat project
	- created smart-contract for it
	- created deploy script for it
	- added github to it ^104977
- ### How To Learn A New Programming Language
	- https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=E8cM12jRH7k&list=TLPQMDQwNjIwMjOPDIEu5pxOlw&index=3
	- Advent of code
	- websocket server
	- larger project
- ### Data Structures I studied for my Google Interviews
	- https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=ljq3T9vGA6c&list=TLPQMDQwNjIwMjOPDIEu5pxOlw&index=3
	- data types
	- data structure
- ### Striver's SDE SHEET CHALLENGE 2023 | 2.25L Worth Prizes | Sheet for Interviews
	- https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=_2iQOQiCzOM&list=TLPQMDQwNjIwMjOPDIEu5pxOlw&index=2
- ### [[This RESUME got me offers from Google, Amazon, Swiggy...]]
	- [[Resume Review  4 Phases of Career  MNCs and Startups Oriented]]
	- [[Resume]]
	- keep it clean
		- deedy CV
	- remove the fluff
	- quantify your achievements
		- i accomplished x as measured by y doing z
		- decreased manual package tracking by over 70% by implementing automatic package cancellation features in ABC region
- 