- ### Goals
- [x] Hyperledger fabrir
- [x] blockchain/ web dev
- [x] workout
- [x] solana cli
- #### [[7 Proven Ways to Create Profitable SaaS Ideas EVERY Time]]
	- Don't tell me your idea , tell me what  problem it solves
	- You want to solve real business problems
		- ##### Find a problem
			- 5 ways
				- scratch your own itch
				- find a problem at your day job
				- try to solve a problem of a relative/ colleague
				- Have a poor customer experience and try to solve it with SaaS
				- find a problem online
		- ##### Translate an existing idea to a new niche
			- land and expand
			- Builders prime example
		- #####  Enter a large space with hated competitors
			- superior UX
			- pricing 
			- support
			- positioning
		- ##### Build on your network
			- Customers
			- Influencers
		- ##### Enter a fast growing ecosystem
			- Ex :- premium wordpress theme 2008
			- identifying a fast growing ecosystem is hard
		- ##### Build on an existing user base
			- By obesrving
			- by asking
		- ##### Look at ways you spent money at your day job
			- Task management
			- issue tracking
			- email client
			- scheduling software
			- slack
			- communication
	- #### Next Step validate
- #### [[GoLang & SvelteKit Custom Auth, it's Easier than you Think... (FULL EXAMPLE & SOURCE CODE PROVIDED)]]
	- [github](https://github.com/bmdavis419/svelte-go-testing)
	- [youtube](https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=50BYTzwC14Y&list=TLPQMTMwNTIwMjPWrjqI6-aQ_A&index=1)
	- [[GoLang & SvelteKit Custom Auth.canvas|GoLang & SvelteKit Custom Auth]]
- #### Hyperledger Fabric apply #Hyperledger 
	- [[Hyperledger Fabric choose the program]]
	-  [Implement a CLI for node interactions in Hyperledger Solang](https://wiki.hyperledger.org/display/INTERN/Implement+a+CLI+for+node+interactions+in+Hyperledger+Solang)
	- ### [[Implement a CLI for node interactions in Hyperledger Solang]]
		- ### Description 

			[Hyperledger Solang](https://github.com/hyperledger/solang) is a Solidity compiler written in Rust. It currently targets [Substrate](https://github.com/paritytech/substrate) [contracts pallet](https://github.com/paritytech/substrate/tree/master/frame/contracts) (Polkadot) and [Solana](https://github.com/solana-labs/solana) smart contract runtimes. After successful compilation, users need to upload the compiled contract artifacts to a blockchain node, so it can be interacted with. At the time of writing, this needs to be done manually via third-party web front-ends. Which results in an inefficient and tiring process during iterative contract development.  

			The goal of this mentorship is to implement a Command Line Interface (CLI) for Solang that can be used for node interactions instead. This includes uploading and deploying contracts on-chain as well as submitting transactions to contracts.

		- #### Additional Information

		We expect the Student to perform the following tasks:
		
		-   Gather requirements and outline a generic interface that will be usable for both supported targets (Substrate and Solana).
		-   Implement the CLI as a sub-commands for Solang.  
		    -   For the Substrate target;  [cargo-contract](https://crates.io/crates/cargo-contract/) already provides a CLI for node interactions (Substrate target), however it does not yet support Solidity contracts.
		    -   For the Solana target
		-   Describe the CLI in Solang's [documentation](https://solang.readthedocs.io/en/latest/).

		- #### Learning Objectives

			- By working on open source code bases, Students will learn and experience practical aspects of software engineering such as:

				-   Designing re-usable interfaces
				-   Analyzing and understanding code bases of reasonable sizes
				-   Refactoring existing components and implementing new features in Rust
				-   Contributing maintainable code to open source projects
				-   Getting proficient in working with tools like git
			Additionally, students will learn about smart contracts, Substrate and Solana in general.

		- #### Expected Outcome

			-   Solang provides a working and documented CLI for node interactions with Substrate and Solana. Options for sub-commands (like RPC end-point, account to use, dry-run flag, gas limits, verbosity and other specific options) must be configurable by the user.  
				-   A sub-command for uploading contracts.
			    -   A sub-command for instantiating contracts.
			    -   A sub-command for calling contract functions. This command must correctly encode transaction input, display and show the calls output and debug output as well as emitted events.
			    -   A sub-command for listening to emitted events.
			-   The student should factor the relevant parts of cargo-contract out into a dedicated library (crate) to make it usable in Solang.
			-   Developed source code is of adequate quality, merged in the projects upstream repositories and have undergone common Pull Request processes.
		- #### Relation to Hyperledger 

			The Solang Solidity compiler is a Hyperledger project.

		- #### Mentee Skills

			We accept students from all educational levels with a background in computer science or a related field. We expect students to either be already familiar with Rust programming language basics such as [Understanding Ownership](https://doc.rust-lang.org/stable/book/ch04-00-understanding-ownership.html) and [Generics](https://doc.rust-lang.org/stable/book/ch10-00-generics.html), OR to demonstrate their ability and willingness to learn them in a timely manner.

		Bringing any of the following skills is of advantage but not strictly required:

		-   Knowledge of blockchain technology and smart contracts
		-   Prior contributions to open source projects
		-   If no prior Rust experience, good knowledge of C++ is of advantage
		-   Basic knowledge of git

		- #### Future plans

			This feature is an important building block for integrations with common Solidity development tools like truffle or hardhat. Additionally, it will greatly improve the user experience of Solang. For Solidity developers, we expect it to become the default way of interacting with our target blockchain nodes.
- ### Solana Metadata add
	- not working #web3  #solana 
	- [[2023-05-14#^958a9d]]
- ### Web dev by Harkirat singh ^6787a7
	- adding  submit button 
	- [github](https://github.com/Deepjyoti-Sarmah/leadingCode)
	- [[2023-05-14#^66a177]]
	- added submit button
	- authorised it with jwt token
	- css styling
	- backend connections